okay the next segment is about semantic
parsing so semantic parsing is about
converting natural language to a logical
form for example to build executable
code for specific applications such as
an airline reservation or a geographical
query system systematic parsec has three
stages the first is to take the input
for example sentence and converted into
a syntactic parse tree using syntactic
analysis and then perform semantic
analysis to come up with a semantic
representation so what is compositional
semantics well this is done by adding
semantic attachments to context-free
grammar rules so we first part the
sentence in tactically and then
associate semantics to each of the
individual words and then use the
context-free grammar and the semantic
attachments to build semantic
representations of all the non-terminal
nodes and at the end of the day we get
the semantics of the full sentence which
is associated with the root of the parse
tree so here's an example the sentence
is Javier likes pizza and what we want
to produce as output is a predicate of
this form in first order logic like who
likes Javier first argument pizza and
second argument so here's how we can do
this we associate a semantic expression
with each of the nodes so Javier likes
and pizza are there leaf nodes each of
them is represented as itself in this
case is a noun
not a noun and then lambda expression so
here's where lambda expressions come in
handy what we want to represent here is
that the verb likes gets represented as
the loved expression of two arguments x
and y that turns them into the predicate
likes with the two arguments so now the
next thing is to combine this node with
the node for pizza and now we are going
to turn the two argument lambda
expression into a single argument lambda
expression so we're going to have one of
the variables bound Y to Pizza and we
only have one unbound variable so we
have a lambda expression only for X now
we're still missing one our
so if we combine the two remaining and
combine nodes Xavier and the lovely
expression for the verb phrase we're
going to get the semantics of the entire
sentence by applying the remaining
unbound lambda expression to Xavier and
we're going to get the predicate for the
sentence which is likes Xavier pizza so
for practical purposes a lot of the
recent work on semantic parsing has been
using a combinatorial categorial grammar
which was introduced by mark Steedman in
1996 so let me give you some examples of
how CCG is used to represent semantics
for example adjectives are presented as
lambda expressions on one variable so we
have lambda X 2 X so this is the
expression that represents the adjective
tall and now we have a transformation
rules that say s back slash and P for
stache adjectives so this is essentially
one of the constituents in ccgs
which corresponds to a lambda expression
with a function f and an argument X and
then NP noun phrase and this example
might use the name of a basketball
player Yao Ming so the noun phrases get
is presented as themselves this one to
represent us and us yeah Ming is taught
in C c/g is how we can do it we start
with the words themselves
Yao Ming is labeled as a noun phrase Tao
is an adjective and is is s and P
adjective that gets translated into C
c/g into a lot of expression 1 for the
function and 1 for the attribute then we
can combine those two together and get
an expression that requires a noun
phrase on the left to form a sentence
and then we can combine those together
with a noun phrase and get the
expression that yamming is tall so now
are in relation to this exercise we have
a polar from NACO 2014 from jonathan
Coomer felt like a black one
Patrick littell it's available in the
macro website and it has two part one is
the Jeanette
CCG part and the second one is specific
to language so the first part introduces
CCG expanding the meaning of the forward
and backward slashes and then it gives a
little grammar using four words and then
it shows how to combine different
expressions to form grammatical parses
and also give some examples of
ungrammatical parses so the first part
of the problem asks the following three
questions one is to explain how CCG
works to parse sentences
number two is to take the sentence I
enjoy long books you have to feel able
to figure out how to parse the sentence
successfully with the grammar and
finally in part three it asks you given
a specific grammar to come up with
sentences that cannot be parsed using
this camera why don't you think about
the answers to those three questions and
then look at the answer on the next
slide so here we have the answers to the
first three parts of the first parlament
CCG from naka and now the second part it
has to do with a language called talk
peace in from New Guinea there are some
sentences in that language and scramble
list of English translations you have to
figure out first or how to match each of
the English sentences to the tapas in
sentences and then in the second part
you have to translate one sentence from
one of the languages into the other and
vice versa and then in the final part
you have to figure out how to map the
different words in that language to the
differents CCG categories on the right
hand side so think about it and look at
the answer in the next slide
okay so after you've had fun with this
nice Mac no problem we're going to look
at a few more examples of recent work on
semantic parsing the first one is a
system called geo query which is one of
the earliest semantic parsing systems by
Zelan Mooney from 1996 it was used to
Paris and semantically represent
questions about geographical data so for
example it took questions like what is
the capital of the state with the
largest population and what are the
major cities in Kansas and it was able
to represent them in first order logic
format so here some of the statements
that it was able to translate so see the
capital city X's major P is a place the
capital S is C B traverses s and so on
okay now let's switch from this order
paper to a more recent one by looks at
or more in Mike Collins from 2005 you
got paper to use C c/g for semantic
parsing again in a domain that involves
geographical questions you can define
Utah as a noun phrase Idaho as a noun
phrase and borders is something that
takes one noun phrase on the left and
one on the right to form a sentence and
here's some of the good presentations
that they end up with what states border
Texas again this is a lambda expression
where X single variable X X has to be a
state and X has to border Texas what is
the largest state again it's a lambda
expression for X where X is a state and
we're computing the size of X and we
want to find the value of this statement
that maximizes the size in a final
example what states border to stay that
borders the most states again can be
represent in a much more convoluted way
using two lambda functions one for state
and one for another type of state so
here's how you can do the derivations so
Utah borders Idaho and what States
border Texas you should take a look at
the derivation and understand how the
output in
love the format is put just using the
CCG derivations here's some more
snapshots from this paper so those are
some of the items that we'll learn in
the system and this is the entire
grammar so this concludes the section on
semantic parsing